# Oasis-ML-Attendance-Prediction
Over the summer I worked at the Oasis Dufferin Community Centre, a food bank that serves hundreds of people in the Dupont-Dufferin area and the GTA. Each week, the food bank was given the opportunity to receive as much fresh food from local grocers as we estimated we needed to provide each person who uses our food bank with enough food for the following few days while minimizing food waste. It was important for us to provide the grocers with an accurate guess as if we underestimated, we would not have enough food to supply the demand; however, if we overestimated, perfectly good food would go to waste. Unfortunately, as it would be worse to undersupply the demand, we always provided the grocers with liberal estimates and thus each week we threw out lots of perfectly good fresh goods. 

Wanting to help minimize our food waste, I took historical attendance data for the past 3 years and developed a Support Vector Machine (SVM) to provide grocers with a far more accurate estimate. After adjusting the dataset to eliminate outliers and fine-tuning the parameters of the SVM, the algorithm consistently achieved around 2% error predicting the attendance 1 week into the future. Given the food bank has and will see the attendance vary from 100 to 250, and the average hamper of fresh food weighs 3 kg, the implementation of this algorithm has reduced weekly waste from between 30 kg to 75kg weekly to a range of 0 kg to 15 kg. I predict the weekly usage of this algorithm will prevent 1,620 kg of fresh food going to waste per year.
